Quoted from: https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/moons/jupiter-moons/ganymede/in-depth/

"
Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system and the only moon with its own magnetic field. The magnetic field
causes auroras, which are ribbons of glowing, electrified gas, in regions circling the moon’s north and south poles.
Ganymede has large, bright regions of ridges and grooves that slice across older, darker terrains. These grooved
regions are a clue that the moon experienced dramatic upheavals in the distant past. Scientists have also found
strong evidence of an underground ocean on Ganymede.

Ganymede is named for a boy who was made cupbearer for the ancient Greek gods by Zeus – Jupiter to the Romans

Ganymede has three main layers. A sphere of metallic iron at the center (the core, which generates a magnetic field), a
spherical shell of rock (mantle) surrounding the core, and a spherical shell of mostly ice surrounding the rock shell
and the core. The ice shell on the outside is very thick, maybe 800 km (497 miles) thick. The surface is the very top
of the ice shell. Though it is mostly ice, the ice shell might contain some rock mixed in. Scientists believe there
must be a fair amount of rock in the ice near the surface. Ganymede's magnetic field is embedded inside Jupiter's
massive magnetosphere.

Astronomers using the Hubble Space Telescope found evidence of thin oxygen atmosphere on Ganymede in 1996. The
atmosphere is far too thin to support life as we know it.

In 2004, scientists discovered irregular lumps beneath the icy surface of Ganymede. The irregular masses may be rock
formations, supported by Ganymede's icy shell for billions of years. This tells scientists that the ice is probably
strong enough, at least near the surface, to support these possible rock masses from sinking to the bottom of the ice.
However, this anomaly could also be caused by piles of rock at the bottom of the ice.

Spacecraft images of Ganymede show the moon has a complex geological history. Ganymede's surface is a mixture of two
types of terrain. Forty percent of the surface of Ganymede is covered by highly cratered dark regions, and the remaining
sixty percent is covered by a light grooved terrain, which forms intricate patterns across Ganymede. The term "sulcus,"
meaning a groove or burrow, is often used to describe the grooved features. This grooved terrain is probably formed by
tensional faulting or the release of water from beneath the surface. Groove ridges as high as 700 m (2,000 feet) have
been observed and the grooves run for thousands of kilometers across Ganymede's surface. The grooves have relatively
few craters and probably developed at the expense of the darker crust. The dark regions on Ganymede are old and rough,
and the dark cratered terrain is believed to be the original crust of the satellite. Lighter regions are young and
smooth (unlike Earth's Moon). The largest area on Ganymede is called Galileo Regio.

The large craters on Ganymede have almost no vertical relief and are quite flat. They lack central depressions common
to craters often seen on the rocky surface of the Moon. This is probably due to slow and gradual adjustment to the soft
icy surface. These large phantom craters are called palimpsests, a term originally applied to reused ancient writing
materials on which older writing was still visible underneath newer writing. Palimpsests range from 50 to 400 km in
diameter. Both bright and dark rays of ejecta exist around Ganymede's craters -- rays tend to be bright from craters
in the grooved terrain and dark from the dark cratered terrain."